MINI PROJECT: CREATING A VPC ON AWS MANAGEMENT CONSOLE

1.	I signed on to AWS management console, searched for VPC service. I clicked on your VPC in the VPC menu, and I clicked on create VPC. Note that I found a default VPC, but I selected create VPC to enable me create my own VPC.
2.	I selected the VPC only, gave it a name tag “my-test-vpc”, I selected IPv4 CIDR manual input.
3.	I selected an IPv4 CIDR range for my VPC to be; 17.0.0.0/16.
4.	After that, I left other things as default.
5.	I clicked create VPC, here is the response; “You successfully created vpc-0ed5c0f21d8002438 / my-test-vpc”.
               vpc-0ed5c0f21d8002438 / my-test-vpc.

CREATING SUBNETS ON AWS MANAGEMENT CONSOLE

1.	I navigated to VPC service and selected subnets, then I clicked on the drop-down filter by VPC and selected the VPC I earlier created. The feedback shows me that I do not have any subnets created.
2.	I clicked on the button create subnet on top right of the console. Under VPC ID, I clicked on the drop-down and selected my earlier created VPC, I chose the subnet name my-test-subnet-01. For the availability zone, I chose us-east-1a.
3.	For IPv4 subnet CIDR block, I chose 17.0.0.0/24.
4.	I clicked on create.
5.	I repeated the process to create another subnet named my-test-subnet-02 and I chose another availability zone us-east-1b. I used 17.0.1.0/24 IPv4 subnet CIDR block. And clicked create.
6.	In conclusion, my Available IPv4 addresses show 251 on the subnet.

CREATING INTERNET GATEWAY AND NAT GATEWAY WITH ROUTE TABLE CONFIGURATION.

1.	On my AWS management console, I navigated to VPC service, and clicked on internet gateways, and clicked on create internet gateway. I chose the name igw-test, and clicked on create internet gateway.
2.	When I clicked on the internet gateways, I saw the created gateway is detached. I clicked on the created internet gateway ID, and I clicked action, and selected attached to VPC. Under available VPC, I chose the VPC I had created earlier, and I clicked on attach internet gateway.
3.	When I checked my internet gateway again, it is now attached to my VPC.
4.	To create a NAT Gateways, I clicked on create Nat Gateway button. I chose a name my-nat-gw-public, and selected my public created subnet, connectivity type, public. I clicked on allocate elastic IP and it generated an elastic IP and I selected same. I clicked create nat gateway.
5.	To create route table, I went to my VPC dashboard, I clicked on route table, and clicked create route table button. I chose a name my-rt-public, and I selected my created VPC. I clicked create route table.
6.	I clicked edit routes, to enable a route to internet through the internet gateway. I clicked add route and selected destination IP to be 0.0.0.0/0 and the target as internet gateway, thereafter, I selected the internet gateway public, and saved changes.
7.	To associate the public subnet to my route table, I clicked on route table, clicked on the public my public route table, I clicked on subnet association, and clicked on edit subnet association. I selected the public subnet and clicked on save association.
8.	To create a route table for my private subnet, I went back to my VPC dashboard, and clicked on route table, I clicked on create route table. I chose the name my-rt-private and selected my VPC earlier created. I clicked create route table button.
9.	To create a subnet association, I clicked on subnet association I clicked edit subnet association. I selected the private subnet and saved changes.



